# code-for-paper-faglocnoKs

Title of the paper:
> Full automorphism groups of large order of compact non-orientable Klein surfaces

# Folder layout

    .
    ├── code               # GAP scripts used in the paper.
    ├──  results           # output generated by GAP.
      ├──  maximal         # results concerning maximal signatures (Section 4).
      ├──  non-maximal     # results concerning non-maximal ones (Section 5).

# Results stated in the paper

## Section 4 Full automorphism groups acting with a maximal signature

### Section 4.1 Permutation groups acting with maximal signatures

There is a table containing pairs of permutations {X,Y} that presumably generate groups acting with signature (0;+;[-];{(2,s,t)}) on non-orientable surfaces. The key point of the proof is that the group generated by X and Y contains certain involutory permutation.
For each one of this pairs, there is a file named "antipodal_generating_pair_2_s_t" in which such claim is proved. They make use of the script "antipodal_generating_pair.gap" to prove that the mirror reflection is in the group generated by the two permutations. It also provides basic information about the group itself: order, structure, whether it is transitive and whether it is primitive.

### Section 4.2 Presentations for some infinite families of groups

Some families of groups are presented. For each one, there is a base finite group. First, it is proved that such group (up to isomorphism) is the smallest group acting with the given (NEC triangle) signature on a non-orientable surface. This is proved using the script "smallest_quotient_triangle.gap". The output for each signature is in the file "smallest_quotient_triangle_2_s_t".

Second, a presentation is derived for each family of groups, based on the properties of certain surface-kernel subgroup in an NEC triangle group with this given signature.

All results concerning the family of groups acting with signature (0;+;[-];{(2,4,6)}) have been obtained using the script "family_quotients_triangle_2_4_6.gap", and the results are discussed in the file "family_quotients_triangle_2_4_6". Similarly, signature (0;+;[-];{(2,5,6)}) is analyzed using the script "family_quotients_triangle_2_5_6.gap", and the results are discussed in the file "family_quotients_triangle_2_5_6".

## Section 5 Groups acting with non-maximal signatures

Theorems 5.1 to 5.5 state that for each of the seven signatures discussed -three in cases (a) and (b), depending on some parameters t and u, and one in case (c)-, there is a group acting with that signature on a non-orientable surface, not the full group, and also a 
group acting with that signature on a non-orientable surface as the full group of automorphisms. For some of them, an explicit presentation for an infinite family of groups is derived.

Extending groups and families: the code for each case and pair of values is in the script "extending_case_x_t_u_infinite_family.gap", and the results are discussed in the file "extending_case_x_t_u_infinite_family" (or "extending_case_x_t_u.gap" and "extending_case_x_t_u" when only one group is presented). 

Non-extending groups and families: the code for each case and pair of values is in the script "non-extending_case_x_t_u_infinite_family.gap", and the results are discussed in the file "non-extending_case_x_t_u_infinite_family" (or "non-extending_case_x_t_u.gap" and "non-extending_case_x_t_u" when only one group is presented).
